---
displayed_sidebar: default
description: >
  Whenever we have a meeting for URL, we will note down the different things
  we did here.
---

# Meeting Reports

Whenever we have any meeting, we will write a report here. Newest reports go at
the top.

<!-- ? Disable no-duplicate-heading -->
<!-- ? A lot of these will have duplicate headings. -->
<!-- ? Users should just link the date instead of Developers/Engineering -->
<!-- markdownlint-disable MD024 -->

<!--

Here's a template:

## Date - Meeting Type (General, Developer, Engineering, etc.)

| General Information |     |
| ------------------- | --- |
| Members Present     |     |
| Meeting Time        |     |
| Report Author(s)    |     |
| Location            |     |

### Description

Enter what this team did during the meeting!

-->

## April 7, 2025 - General Meeting

| General Information |                                                        |
| ------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------ |
| Members Present     | Joseph Sweatt, Carlos Valdez, Jason Martin, Helen Chau |
| Meeting Time        | 10:00 AM - 12:00 PM                                    |
| Report Author(s)    | Carlos Valdez                                          |
| Location            | Undergraduate Research Lab @ Donald Bren Hall          |

### Description

Carlos introduced the new sprint to the developers. Joseph took time to work on
Symposium paperwork. Jason and Helen worked on their assigned tasks.

## April 4, 2025  - General Meeting

| General Information |                                                                                  |
| ------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Members Present     | Joseph Sweatt, Carlos Valdez, Mai Luong, Jason Martin, Meadow Rubalcava (remote) |
| Meeting Time        | 10:00 AM - 12:00 PM                                                              |
| Report Author(s)    | Carlos Valdez                                                                    |
| Location            | Undergraduate Research Lab @ Donald Bren Hall                                    |

### Description

Carlos and Joseph took time to plan out what the next year will look like as
Carlos is due to graduate soon.

Mai and Carlos took time to discuss upcoming user interviews that will happen
during the second and third Spring sprints.

Carlos and Jason spoke about how the developers team will look like in the
following academic year, including potential recruits.

## March 5, 2025 - Developer Meeting

| General Information |                                                                  |
| ------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Members Present     | Helen Chau, Jesse David, Ayush Jain, Jason Martin, Carlos Valdez |
| Meeting Time        | 11:00 AM - 2:00 PM                                               |
| Report Author(s)    | Jesse David                                                      |
| Location            | Undergraduate Research Lab @ Donald Bren Hall                    |

### Description

The Developers Team continued working on
[backlog items](https://github.com/ojosproject/iris/blob/da899c19da545219db7c2c57cccddd965e89ba4e/docs/maintenance/sprint.md)
for Winter Quarter.

## March 3, 2025 - General Meeting

| General Information |                                                                   |
| ------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Members Present     | Helen Chau, Jesse David, Ayush Jain, Joseph Sweatt, Carlos Valdez |
| Meeting Time        | 12:00 PM - 3:00 PM                                                |
| Report Author(s)    | Jesse David                                                       |
| Location            | Undergraduate Research Lab @ Donald Bren Hall                     |

### Description

The Engineering Team continued wokring on Palliaview.
The Developers Team continued working on
[backlog items](https://github.com/ojosproject/iris/blob/da899c19da545219db7c2c57cccddd965e89ba4e/docs/maintenance/sprint.md)
for Winter Quarter.

## February 24, 2025 - General Meeting

| General Information |                                                                                                   |
| ------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Members Present     | Helen Chau, Jesse David,  Mai Luong, Jason Martin, Meadow Rubalcava, Joseph Sweatt, Carlos Valdez |
| Meeting Time        | 12:00 PM - 3:00 PM                                                                                |
| Report Author(s)    | Jesse David                                                                                       |
| Location            | Undergraduate Research Lab @ Donald Bren Hall                                                     |

### Description

The Ojos Project had a meeting with Professor Baldwin to discuss the team's
current progress. The Developers Team continued working on
[backlog items](https://github.com/ojosproject/iris/blob/da899c19da545219db7c2c57cccddd965e89ba4e/docs/maintenance/sprint.md)
for Winter Quarter.

## February 12, 2025 - Developer Meeting

| General Information |                                                    |
| ------------------- | -------------------------------------------------- |
| Members Present     | Helen Chau, Jesse David, Ayush Jain, Carlos Valdez |
| Meeting Time        | 11:00 AM - 2:00 PM                                 |
| Report Author(s)    | Jesse David                                        |
| Location            | Undergraduate Research Lab @ Donald Bren Hall      |

### Description

The Developers Team continued working on
[backlog items](https://github.com/ojosproject/iris/blob/da899c19da545219db7c2c57cccddd965e89ba4e/docs/maintenance/sprint.md)
for the second sprint of Winter Quarter.

## February 10, 2025 - General Meeting

| General Information |                                                                 |
| ------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Members Present     | Helen Chau, Jesse David, Jason Martin, Carlos Valdez, Mai Luong |
| Meeting Time        | 12:00 PM - 3:00 PM                                              |
| Report Author(s)    | Jesse David                                                     |
| Location            | Undergraduate Research Lab @ Donald Bren Hall                   |

### Description

The Developers Team continued working on
[backlog items](https://github.com/ojosproject/iris/blob/da899c19da545219db7c2c57cccddd965e89ba4e/docs/maintenance/sprint.md)
for the second sprint of Winter Quarter.

Carlos worked on the PROs feature. Jason continued working on the relay feature.
Jesse worked on medication icons.

## February 5, 2025 - Developer Meeting

| General Information |                                                                  |
| ------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Members Present     | Helen Chau, Jesse David, Ayush Jain, Jason Martin, Carlos Valdez |
| Meeting Time        | 11:00 AM - 2:00 PM                                               |
| Report Author(s)    | Jesse David, Carlos Valdez                                       |
| Location            | Undergraduate Research Lab @ Donald Bren Hall                    |

### Description

The Developers Team continued working on
[backlog items](https://github.com/ojosproject/iris/blob/da899c19da545219db7c2c57cccddd965e89ba4e/docs/maintenance/sprint.md)
for the second sprint of Winter Quarter.

Helen continued to work on adding animations and started adding accessibility
features on Iris. Jesse worked on creating designs for the medication scheduling
screen, as well as medication icons. Ayush continued to work on the artificial
intelligence feature for the care instructions. Jason continued to work on the
Iris API (to be renamed to the Iris Server) and began running tests. Carlos
worked on documentation.

## February 3, 2025 - General Meeting

| General Information |                                                                                                              |
| ------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| Members Present     | Helen Chau, Jesse David, Ayush Jain, Mai Luong, Jason Martin, Meadow Rubalcava, Joseph Sweatt, Carlos Valdez |
| Meeting Time        | 12:00 PM - 3:00 PM                                                                                           |
| Report Author(s)    | Jesse David                                                                                                  |
| Location            | Undergraduate Research Lab @ Donald Bren Hall                                                                |

### Description

The second sprint of the quarter started. Carlos assigned the developers new
[backlog items](https://github.com/ojosproject/iris/blob/da899c19da545219db7c2c57cccddd965e89ba4e/docs/maintenance/sprint.md),
and the developers began working on them. The engineers worked
on designing the new shell for Palliaview.

## January 27, 2025 - General Meeting

| General Information |                                                                                                  |
| ------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| Members Present     | Jesse David, Ayush Jain, Mai Luong, Jason Martin, Meadow Rubalcava, Joseph Sweatt, Carlos Valdez |
| Meeting Time        | 12:00 PM - 3:00 PM                                                                               |
| Report Author(s)    | Jesse David                                                                                      |
| Location            | Undergraduate Research Lab @ Donald Bren Hall                                                    |

### Description

The team had a virtual meeting with Professor Baldwin. Carlos worked on the
joystick support. Ayush worked on the AI feature. Jesse worked on news page
headers. Mai worked on the medication rewrite. Jason continued working on the
relay notification feature. Joseph worked on the documentation related to UROP
and the CHI competition.

## January 22, 2025 - Developer Meeting

| General Information |                                                                  |
| ------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Members Present     | Helen Chau, Jesse David, Carlos Valdez, Ayush Jain, Jason Martin |
| Meeting Time        | 11:00 AM - 2:00 PM                                               |
| Report Author(s)    | Jesse David                                                      |
| Location            | Undergraduate Research Lab @ Donald Bren Hall                    |

### Description

Carlos and Helen worked on bug fixes. Jason worked on the relay notification
feature. Ayush worked on the AI feature. Jesse worked on the website.

## January 15, 2025 - Developer Meeting

| General Information |                                                                  |
| ------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Members Present     | Carlos Valdez, Ayush Jain, Jason Martin, Jesse David, Helen Chau |
| Meeting Time        | 11:00 AM - 2:00 PM                                               |
| Report Author(s)    | Carlos Valdez                                                    |
| Location            | Undergraduate Research Lab @ Donald Bren Hall                    |

### Description

Carlos, Jason and Helen began fixing the various bugs discovered by the user
testing interview. The bugs are being added to the sprint backlog. Carlos began
rewriting the medications backend. Jesse started working on designs for a
medication schedule.

## January 13, 2025 - General Meeting

| General Information |                                                                                                                  |
| ------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Members Present     | Joseph Sweatt, Ayush Jain, Carlos Valdez, Meadow Rubalcava, Jason Martin, Helen Chau, Kristopher Doan, Mai Luong |
| Meeting Time        | 12:00 PM - 3:00 PM                                                                                               |
| Report Author(s)    | Carlos Valdez, Kristopher Doan                                                                                   |
| Location            | Undergraduate Research Lab @ Donald Bren Hall                                                                    |

### Description

The developers began their first sprint of Winter quarter. The
[sprint backlog](https://github.com/ojosproject/iris/blob/main/docs/maintenance/sprint.md)
was updated to reflect what developers will work on for the next three weeks.
The developers began user testing interviews with the Engineering team to reveal
bugs in the code.

Engineering marked out their goals for the shell and embedded systems and
collaborated with the developers to create a scope of work. They also discussed
what type of additions they should have for the peripherals, trackball, and AR.

## January 8, 2025 - Developer Meeting

| General Information |                                                                  |
| ------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Members Present     | Carlos Valdez, Ayush Jain, Jason Martin, Helen Chau, Jesse David |
| Meeting Time        | 11:00 AM - 2:00 PM                                               |
| Report Author(s)    | Carlos Valdez                                                    |
| Location            | Undergraduate Research Lab @ Donald Bren Hall                    |

### Description

Carlos introduced Scrum as the collaboration framework we'll be using. The team
was also asked to complete a [Tauri training](/docs/policies/tauri-training/).
Everyone was also asked to enable [GPG](/docs/policies/gpg/) for commit signing.

## December 5, 2024 - Developer Meeting

| General Information |                                                      |
| ------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------- |
| Members Present     | Carlos Valdez, Jason Martin, Ayush Jain, Jesse David |
| Meeting Time        | 11:00 AM - 2:00 PM                                   |
| Report Author(s)    | Carlos Valdez                                        |
| Location            | Undergraduate Research Lab @ Donald Bren Hall        |

### Description

Ayush and Jesse continued working on the AI feature. Carlos continued working on
the Settings page for Iris, and
[completed the consent screen for Twilio](https://github.com/ojosproject/iris/issues/46).
Jason continued working on the website.

## Dec 4th, 2024 - Engineering

| General Information |                                                           |
| ------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------- |
| Members Present     | Kris Doan, Carlos Valdez, Meadow Rubaclava, Joseph Sweatt |
| Meeting Time        | 6:50 pm                                                   |
| Report Author(s)    | Joseph Sweatt                                             |
| Location            | Camino Del Sol                                            |

### Description

Engineers finished our Palliaview V0.2 Engineer Design Report and began writing
our new blog posts about respective topics including CHI competition, Palliaview
V0.2 update release, and the 2024 Fall wrap up. Additional CAD design for the
Ojos project were developed.

## December 3rd, 2024 - General Meeting

| General Information |                                                      |
| ------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------- |
| Members Present     | Carlos Valdez, Jason Martin, Ayush Jain, Jesse David |
| Meeting Time        | 11:00 AM - 2:00 PM                                   |
| Report Author(s)    | Jason Martin                                         |
| Location            | Undergraduate Research Lab @ Donald Bren Hall        |

### Description

Carlos helped familiarize Jason with the Iris website, as well as working on the
settings page. Ayush and Jesse continued researching AI implementation for Iris.

## November 21, 2024 - Developer Meeting

| General Information |                                                                                                                |
| ------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Members Present     | Carlos Valdez, Joseph Sweatt, Jason Martin, Helen Chau, Kris Doan, Ayush Jain (Discord), Jesse David (Discord) |
| Meeting Time        | 11:00 AM - 2:00 PM                                                                                             |
| Report Author(s)    | Carlos Valdez                                                                                                  |
| Location            | Undergraduate Research Lab @ Donald Bren Hall                                                                  |

### Description

Jason and Carlos worked on building the Iris API and explored authentication
methods. Ayush and Jesse looked more into AI models to research which best would
work with Palliaview. Helen continued working on the `pro` branch. Kris and
Carlos looked into the Fitbit API. Carlos started a `settings` branch to
directly interact with the `Config` struct.

## November 19, 2024 -General Meeting

| General Information |                                                                                                                               |
| ------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Members Present     | Carlos Valdez, Joseph Sweatt, Ayush Jain, Meadow Rubalcava, Kristopher Doan, Mai Luong, Jason Martin, Jesse David, Helen Chau |
| Meeting Time        | 10 am to 2 pm                                                                                                                 |
| Report Author(s)    | Kristopher Doan                                                                                                               |
| Location            | Undergraduate Research Lab @ Donald Bren Hall                                                                                 |

### Ojos project Team

Discussed and finalized our Kai competition schedule to meet deadline and compiled Iris Software on Palliaview

### Engineering Team

Finalized V0.2 of Palliaview, started Design Engineering report, and began research for V0.3 of Palliaview

### Developing Team

Ayush and Jesse kept looking into the AI feature, Helen kept working on the PROS branch, Carlos and Jason worked on the Flask server

## November 12, 2024 - General Meeting

| General Information |                                                                                                         |
| ------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Members Present     | Carlos Valdez, Joseph Sweatt (Discord), Jesse David, Meadow Rubalcava (Discord), Helen Chau, Ayush Jain |
| Meeting Time        | 11:00 AM - 2:00 PM                                                                                      |
| Report Author(s)    | Carlos Valdez                                                                                           |
| Location            | Undergraduate Research Lab @ Donald Bren Hall, Undergraduate Research Lab Discord server                |

### Description

Carlos and Ayush attempted to get a Raspberry Pi working to test Iris on it, but
stopped because they were missing an SD card.

Carlos continued to work on the care instructions page for Iris. Joseph and
Meadow worked on finishing slicing the 3D models. Jesse designed checkboxes and
input boxes for Iris, as well as a Settings page. Helen continued to work on the
patient reported outcomes page. Ayush continued to research different AI models
to use for Iris.

## November 7, 2024 - Developer Meeting

| General Information |                                                                |
| ------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Members Present     | Carlos Valdez, Jason Martin, Helen Chau, Mai Luong, Ayush Jain |
| Meeting Time        | 11:00 AM - 2:00 PM                                             |
| Report Author(s)    | Carlos Valdez                                                  |
| Location            | Undergraduate Research Lab @ Donald Bren Hall                  |

### Description

Carlos and Ayush taught Jason how the web works. Carlos and Jason are figuring
out how to set up a server for the Iris so that they don't keep Twilio API keys
in Iris.

Helen continued to work on the frontend for patient reported outcomes.

Ayush began researching for our AI-related feature.

## November 5, 2024 - General Meeting

| General Information |                                                                                   |
| ------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Members Present     | Carlos Valdez, Meadow Rubalcava, Jesse David, Jason Martin, Helen Chau, Mai Luong |
| Meeting Time        | 11 AM - 2 PM                                                                      |
| Report Author(s)    | Carlos Valdez                                                                     |
| Location            | Undergraduate Research Lab @ Donald Bren Hall                                     |

### Description

Carlos and Jason took time to plan the notification relay for Iris. Jesse worked
on designs for the PROs. Helen continued to implement PROs. Mai continued with
research-related tasks.

## October 29, 2024 - General Meeting

| General Information |                                                                                                                                   |
| ------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Members Present     | Carlos Valdez, Joseph Sweatt, Ayush Jain, Meadow Rubalcava, Kristopher Doan, Mai Luong, Jason Martin (async), Jesse David (async) |
| Meeting Time        | 10 AM - 2 PM                                                                                                                      |
| Report Author(s)    | Kristopher Doan, Carlos Valdez                                                                                                    |
| Location            | Undergraduate Research Lab @ Donald Bren Hall                                                                                     |

### Summary

Carlos helped the Engineering team learn how to write meeting reports on the
Docusaurus site. Jesse worked on design for Patient Reported Outcomes, Jason
worked on the relaying service, Carlos worked on polishing the Medication
Logging PR, Mai worked on her personal statement.

## October 28, 2024 - Engineering Meeting

| General Information |                                                                             |
| ------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Members Present     | Carlos Valdez, Joseph Sweatt, Ayush Jain, Meadow Rubalcava, Kristopher Doan |
| Meeting Time        | 5 PM - 7 PM                                                                 |
| Report Author(s)    | Kristopher Doan                                                             |
| Location            | Camino Del Sol                                                              |

### Summary

Making itemized budget and discussion for PCB Design,
finished personal statements

## October 24, 2024 - Developer Meeting

| General Information |                                                                 |
| ------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Members Present     | Carlos Valdez, Jason Martin, Jesse David, Helen Chau, Mai Luong |
| Meeting Time        | 11:00 AM - 2:00 PM                                              |
| Report Author(s)    | Carlos Valdez                                                   |
| Location            | Undergraduate Research Lab @ Donald Bren Hall                   |

### Summary

Carlos started polishing up the Medication Logging PR and is also taking over
the camera PR. Jason is starting to work on the SMS messaging PR. Jesse worked
on designs for the PRO features, Helen will be implementing them. Mai worked on
organizing potential interviewees.

## October 22, 2024 - General Meeting

| General Information |                                                                                                |
| ------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Members Present     | Joseph Sweatt, Carlos Valdez, Ayush Jain, Meadow Rubalcava, Helen Chau, Jesse David, Kris Doan |
| Meeting Time        | 11:00 AM - 2:00 PM                                                                             |
| Report Author(s)    | Carlos Valdez                                                                                  |
| Location            | Undergraduate Research Lab @ Donald Bren Hall                                                  |

### Ojos Project

Joseph, Carlos, Ayush, and Kris prepared some things for the URL Event tomorrow.
Meadow was doing CAD assembly for the V0.2 arm system. Jesse worked on designs
for the PRs.

Mai finished up the Medication Logging PR, requiring review. Helen figured out
the camera PR, allowing us to keep moving forward with the recordings feature.

## October 17, 2024 - Developer Meeting

| General Information |                                                     |
| ------------------- | --------------------------------------------------- |
| Members Present     | Carlos Valdez, Jason Martin, Jesse David, Mai Luong |
| Meeting Time        | 11:00 AM - 2:00 PM                                  |
| Report Author(s)    | Carlos Valdez                                       |
| Location            | Undergraduate Research Lab @ Donald Bren Hall       |

### Developers

Developers worked on a practice proposal for the Undergraduate Research Lab.
After they submitted that, they wrote their personal statements for the UROP
Research Experience Fellowship, resulting in Jason, Jesse, and Mai finishing
their first draft.

## October 15, 2024

| General Information |                                                                                 |
| ------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Teams Present       | Developers                                                                      |
| Members Present     | Carlos Valdez, Jesse David, Helen Chau, Ayush Jain, Jason Martin, Joseph Sweatt |
| Meeting Time        | 11:00 AM - 2:00 PM                                                              |
| Report Author(s)    | Carlos Valdez                                                                   |
| Location            | Undergraduate Research Lab @ Donald Bren Hall                                   |

### Ojos Project

Joseph started the process for us to begin applying for the UROP Research
Experience Fellowship.

### Developers

Ayush and Helen kept working on the Video Recording/Storage feature. Jesse
worked on designs for Patient Reported Outcomes. Jason worked on the backend for
Patient Reported Outcomes. Carlos published the new version of the website.

## October 10, 2024

| General Information |                                                                  |
| ------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Teams Present       | Developers                                                       |
| Members Present     | Carlos Valdez, Jason Martin, Ayush Jain, Jesse David, Helen Chau |
| Meeting Time        | 11:00 AM - 2:00 PM                                               |
| Report Author(s)    | Carlos Valdez                                                    |
| Location            | Undergraduate Research Lab @ Donald Bren Hall                    |

### Developers

The Developers met to work on Iris.

Ayush and Helen worked on
[Video Recording/Storage](https://github.com/ojosproject/iris/pull/19), Jesse
worked on some designs for the Undergraduate Research Lab, Jason worked on
[Patient Reported Outcomes](https://github.com/ojosproject/iris/pull/26), and
Carlos worked on updating the
[Requirements document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1EJlghYqhiPrZsjPUHxxG_WeHkHulPB4a-HF8fL7QsCs/).

Although Mai wasn't there physically, she worked on
[Medication Logging](https://github.com/ojosproject/iris/pull/22).

## June 6, 2024

| General Information |                                                                        |
| ------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Teams Present       | Developers, Engineering                                                |
| Members Present     | Joseph Sweatt, Carlos Valdez, Ayush Jain, Mark S. Baldwin, Jesse David |
| Meeting Time        | 12:00-4:00 PM                                                          |
| Report Author(s)    | Joseph Sweatt                                                          |
| Location            | Undergraduate Research Lab @ Donald Bren Hall                          |

### Ojos Project

The Ojos Project met with Mark S. Baldwin to wrap up the quarter and finish final
website posts. We will reconvene during Summer session I.

## June 5, 2024

| General Information |                                                                                               |
| ------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Teams Present       | Developers, Engineers                                                                         |
| Members Present     | Carlos Valdez, Joseph Sweatt, Ayush Jain, Jesse David, Meadow Rubalcava, Kris Doan, Mai Luong |
| Meeting Time        | 12:00 - 3:00PM                                                                                |
| Report Author(s)    | Carlos Valdez, Joseph Sweatt                                                                  |
| Location            | Undergraduate Research Lab @ Donald Bren Hall                                                 |

### URL Planning Committee

The URL Planning Committee took some time to plan out how the Undergraduate
Research Lab is going to look like during Fall 2024 and onwards.

### Developers

Since finals week is almost here, developers were given the option of learning
Rust with [Tour of Rust](https://tourofrust.com/) or studying for finals.

### Engineering

Engineering did a practice CAD modeling exercise with Onshape software to
familiarize with user interface and operations.

## May 30, 2024

| General Information |                                                                                           |
| ------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Teams Present       | Developers, Engineering                                                                   |
| Members Present     | Carlos Valdez, Joseph Sweatt, Mark S. Baldwin, Ayush Jain, Meadow Rubalcava, Jason Martin |
| Meeting Time        | 12:00 PM - 3:00 PM                                                                        |
| Report Author(s)    | Carlos Valdez, Joseph Sweatt                                                              |
| Location            | Undergraduate Research Lab @ Donald Bren Hall                                             |

### Ojos Project

We updated Mark on the status of the project. We told him about SURP/LAEP
winners. We also told him that the Developers are learning Rust.

We also told him that Carlos, Joseph, and Ayush started the URL Planning
Committee to plan out how the future of the URL will look like.

### Developers

Developers are still learning Rust, now trying with
[Tour of Rust](https://tourofrust.com/).

### Engineering

Eningeering continue to familarize with Onshape User interface and capbailites.
It is showing that there is a long road to develop individual skills.

## May 29, 2024

| General Information |                                                                           |
| ------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Teams Present       | Developers, Engineering                                                   |
| Members Present     | Carlos Valdez, Jesse David, Meadow Rubalcava, Joseph Sweatt, Jason Martin |
| Meeting Time        | 12:00 PM - 3:00 PM                                                        |
| Report Author(s)    | Carlos Valdez                                                             |
| Location            | Undergraduate Research Lab @ Donald Bren Hall                             |

### Ojos Project

We introduced the team to the [digital agenda on Google Docs](https://docs.google.com/document/d/10M-nWgvVwltjMFBX2B4WWvXJXEF5i2PFWH1fpbsGK-8/).
We also told the team about the SURP/LAEP winners. Members will also asked to
sign up to the URL Planning Committee if they're interested.

### Developers

Developers are learning Rust and did some demo projects to get the gist of Rust
before writing code for Iris.

### Engineering

Engineering began to create more immediate goals for indiviudals for the summer.
These include:

- Literature reserach on engineering systems
- Imprvement of technical skills
- development of of documentation and Engineering writing.

Additionally, We began to use Onshape Tutorials and implement older project STL
designs in the new system.

## May 22, 2024

| General Information |                                                                                       |
| ------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Teams Present       | Engineering, Developers                                                               |
| Members Present     | Joseph Sweatt, Carlos Valdez, Jesse David, Ayush Jain, Mark Baldwin, Meadow Rubalcava |
| Meeting Time        | 12:00 PM - 3:00 PM                                                                    |
| Report Author(s)    | Joseph Sweatt, Carlos Valdez                                                          |
| Location            | Undergraduate Research Lab @ Donald Bren Hall                                         |

### Ojos Project

The Ojos Project collaborated on the previous meeting to decide more about the
workflow, summer undergraduate research program guidelines. Furthermore,
discussion with Mark Baldwin on the events and the performance of the Symposium.

### Engineering

Developments on new systems management for CAD collaboration are being decided.
Tasks and responsibilities for the rest of the qtr as well as summer we also being
discussed. These include roles, hours of meeting, location and remote
possibility.

We also determined summer commitments such as career and academic
responsibilities. Later on, we began looking in the proper licensing for the
hardware design. Prioritizing open-source values, and accreditation of our work
contributions.

### Developers

Developers voted on transitioning the project from Python to Rust and started
learning a bit of Rust.

## May 21, 2024

| General Information |               |
| ------------------- | ------------- |
| Teams Present       | N/A           |
| Members Present     | N/A           |
| Meeting Time        | N/A           |
| Report Author(s)    | Joseph Sweatt |
| Location            | N/A           |

### Ojos Project

This day was taken to recover after a productive work week involving the
symposium. Additionally, administrative details, planning for the upcoming goals.
and workflow management decisions were initiated remotely.

## May 17, 2024

| General Information |                                                                       |
| ------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Teams Present       | Developers, Engineering                                               |
| Members Present     | Carlos Valdez, Ayush Jain, Meadow Rubalcava, Kris Doan, Joseph Sweatt |
| Meeting Time        | 1:30 PM - 3:00 PM                                                     |
| Report Author(s)    | Carlos Valdez                                                         |
| Location            | Bren Events Center                                                    |

### Ojos Project

We presented our work at the 2024 Undergraduate Research Symposium.

[View pics here](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/12m_Vo5XeYGjv0yok0-WHEYNAUgJUr7bz).

## May 16, 2024

| General Information |                                                                            |
| ------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Teams Present       | Engineering, Developers                                                    |
| Members Present     | Joseph Sweatt, Carlos Valdez, Mark S. Baldwin, Meadow Rubalcava, Kris Doan |
| Meeting Time        | 12:00 PM - 3:00PM                                                          |
| Report Author(s)    | Joseph Sweatt, Carlos Valdez                                               |
| Location            | Remote                                                                     |

### Ojos Project

We did some preparation for the symposium such as interview preparation and
professional development.

## May 15, 2024

| General Information |                                                                          |
| ------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| Teams Present       | Engineering, Developers                                                  |
| Members Present     | Joseph Sweatt, Carlos Valdez, Meadow Rubalcava, Jason Martin, Ayush Jain |
| Meeting Time        | 12:00 PM - 3:00PM                                                        |
| Report Author(s)    | Joseph Sweatt                                                            |
| Location            | Undergraduate Research Lab @ Donald Bren Hall                            |

### Engineering, Developers

Joseph and Ayush led a resume and symposium breakdown to prepare new or
inexperienced members. Carlos started the process to make a supplemental
information page for the symposium.

## May 10, 2024

| General Information |                                                                            |
| ------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Teams Present       | Engineering, Developers                                                    |
| Members Present     | Joseph Sweatt, Carlos, Valdez, Kris Doan, Jesse David, Mai Luong           |
| Meeting Time        | 12:00-4:00 PM                                                              |
| Report Author(s)    | Joseph Sweatt                                                              |
| Location            | Undergraduate Research Lab @ Donald Bren Hall, Division of Career Pathways |

### Engineering

Joseph Sent out the poster to
[ImageWorks @ UCI](https://www.imageworks.bio.uci.edu/) for it to be printed in
time for the symposium. Additionally, Joseph and Kris went to the Division of
Career Pathways to obtain professional clothes for the symposium.

## May 9, 2024

| General Information |                                                                                                        |
| ------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| Teams Present       |                                                                                                        |
| Members Present     | Joseph Sweatt, Carlos Valdez, Meadow Rubalcava, Mark S. Baldwin, Ayush Jain, Jesse David, Jason Martin |
| Meeting Time        | 12:00-3:00PM                                                                                           |
| Report Author(s)    | Joseph Sweatt                                                                                          |
| Location            | Undergraduate Research Lab @ Donald Bren Hall                                                          |

### Engineering, Developers

Joseph attended an UROP advisor appointment to get feedback on the poster and
iron out final details on the printers before it was sent off to the printers.
Mark S. Baldwin also provided key input on changes that can be done to the
symposium poster

### Engineering

Meadow finished first assembly of her models of the mounting system.

## May 8, 2024

| General Information |                                                                                                  |
| ------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| Teams Present       | Engineering, Developers                                                                          |
| Members Present     | Joseph Sweatt, Carlos Valdez, Jesse David, Jason Martin, Meadow Rubalcava, Ayush Jain, Kris Doan |
| Meeting Time        | 12:00 PM - 3:00PM                                                                                |
| Report Author(s)    | Joseph Sweatt                                                                                    |
| Location            | Undergraduate Research Lab @ Donald Bren Hall                                                    |

### Engineering, Developers

The group worked on proofing and finalizing our Symposium Poster before it is
sent off to the printers.

### Engineering

Meadow continued to CAD her mounting system for the Palliaview design. Joseph
attempted a loose assembly fo the physical electronic components. Kris Doan
created a electronic component diagram for the poster.

## May 9, 2024

| General Information |                                                                                                        |
| ------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| Teams Present       | Developers, Engineering                                                                                |
| Members Present     | Carlos Valdez, Joseph Sweatt, Jesse David, Mark S. Baldwin, Ayush Jain, Meadow Rubalcava, Jason Martin |
| Meeting Time        | 12:00 PM - 3:00 PM                                                                                     |
| Report Author(s)    | Carlos Valdez                                                                                          |
| Location            | Undergraduate Research Lab @ Donald Bren Hall                                                          |

### Developers

Developers continued to work on the Iris prototype for the symposium. Ayush and
Carlos started looking into how to work with the PyGObject library, but noticed
the documentation isn't in a singular place. Carlos will look into it more.

## May 8, 2024

| General Information |                                                                                                 |
| ------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Teams Present       | Developers, Engineering                                                                         |
| Members Present     | Joseph Sweatt, Ayush Jain, Carlos Valdez, Jesse David, Jason Martin, Kristopher Doan, Mai Luong |
| Meeting Time        | 12:00 PM - 3:00 PM                                                                              |
| Report Author(s)    | Carlos Valdez                                                                                   |
| Location            | Undergraduate Research Lab @ Donald Bren Hall                                                   |

### Developers

Jason noticed we could make a `.sql` to create the tables faster. We did so, but
we all had to brush up on SQL, specifically with `sqlite3`.

Carlos started using
[GitHub Milestones](https://github.com/ojosproject/iris/milestone/1) to create
agendas for the team.

[Last commit of the meeting](https://github.com/ojosproject/iris/commit/785fddb4f323cb1d0465303921de6ca02e0557b7).

## May 3, 2024

| General Information |                                               |
| ------------------- | --------------------------------------------- |
| Teams Present       | Developers                                    |
| Members Present     | Carlos Valdez, Jesse David, Jason Martin      |
| Meeting Time        | 12:00 PM - 4:00 PM                            |
| Report Author(s)    | Carlos Valdez                                 |
| Location            | Undergraduate Research Lab @ Donald Bren Hall |

### Developers

Carlos tried to help get the developers setup with Pipenv, which proved to be
difficult. Carlos and Jason got started with the code and created various
modules, such as `Database.py`, `User.py`, `main.py`, and `Medications.py`.

[View the last commit done during the meeting](https://github.com/ojosproject/iris/tree/db5284f4f7acca25bcd2c2480dfd86e1afd486c4).

## May 2, 2024

| General Information |                                                                                      |
| ------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| Teams Present       | Engineering, Developers                                                              |
| Members Present     | Ayush Jain, Joseph Sweatt, Carlos Valdez, Jesse David, Mark S. Baldwin, Jason Martin |
| Meeting Time        | 12:30 PM - 3:00 PM                                                                   |
| Report Author(s)    | Carlos Valdez                                                                        |
| Location            | Undergraduate Research Lab @ Donald Bren Hall                                        |

### Research Advisor Meeting

We updated the professor about the different designs happening with Developers
and Engineering. He asked us about our workflow and mentioned we seem to be
doing the waterfall method. Once coding starts, we will be switching a different
workflow. We might try agile?

### Developers, Engineering

Everybody worked on the 2024 Symposium poster for the Ojos Project.

Carlos and Joseph are actively adding supplemental content on the website for
the symposium.
[Process can be seen in this PR](https://github.com/ojosproject/website/pull/29).

Jason looked into Pipfiles and wrote some documentation on it for us to use
later.
[Progress can be seen in this PR](https://github.com/ojosproject/website/pull/30).

## May 1, 2024

| General Information |                                                                                                  |
| ------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| Teams Present       | Developers, Engineering                                                                          |
| Members Present     | Carlos Valdez, Ayush Jain, Joseph Sweatt, Jesse David, Meadow Rubalcava, Mai Luong, Jason Martin |
| Meeting Time        | 12:30 PM - 3:00 PM                                                                               |
| Report Author(s)    | Carlos Valdez, Joseph Sweatt                                                                     |
| Location            | Undergraduate Research Lab @ Donald Bren Hall, Zoom                                              |

### Developers

Developers took some time to ensure all of our designs are
consistent with one another. We also created a new
Filesystem Diagram to help us visualize how
Iris will interact with the Linux filesystem.

Developers also continued to work on the Requirements.

We plan on starting development this Friday.

We introduced a new developer! Welcome Mai!

### Engineering

Engineering developed more into the mounting system and adjusted previous models
now that we have parts to use and measure from.

## April 26, 2024

| General Information |                                                      |
| ------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------- |
| Teams Present       | Developers                                           |
| Members Present     | Carlos Valdez, Ayush Jain, Jason Martin, Jesse David |
| Meeting Time        | 12:00 PM - 4:00 PM                                   |
| Report Author(s)    | Carlos Valdez, Joseph Sweatt                         |
| Location            | Undergraduate Research Lab @ Donald Bren Hall        |

### Developers

Developers decided to work on the
Iris database scheme since working on
class diagrams became complicated without having a solid idea of what exactly
the database will have. The database schema is mostly finalized.

Carlos took time to research how to implement Patient
Reported Outcomes (PROs) into the database and decided to use
[PROMIS](https://www.healthmeasures.net/explore-measurement-systems/promis).

Ayush and Jason worked on creating a dummy database to see how effective our
schema is.

Carlos and Jesse worked on a flowchart diagram for the Symposium.

### Engineering

While Joseph and Meadow continue on the CAD modeling of the Palliaview, Kris
highlighted key problems that we needed to address in the mounting system.

Additionally, parts were able to be purchased with an estimated arrival of
May 1, 2024. Any additional parts such as fastener and thread inserts are still
need for purchase.

The following are still underway.

- [ ] Finite Element Analysis (FEA)
- [ ] Computer-Aided Drawings (CAD)
- [ ] Electrical Diagrams
- [ ] Engineering Reports

## April 25, 2024

| General Information |                                                                                                                         |
| ------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Teams Present       | Developers, Engineering                                                                                                 |
| Members Present     | Carlos Valdez, Joseph Sweatt, Ayush Jain, Jesse David, Meadow Rubalcava, Mark S. Baldwin, Kristopher Doan, Jason Martin |
| Meeting Time        | 12:00 PM - 3:00 PM                                                                                                      |
| Report Author(s)    | Carlos Valdez, Joseph Sweatt                                                                                            |
| Location            | Undergraduate Research Lab @ Donald Bren Hall                                                                           |

### Research Advisor Meeting

Engineering requested things to be bought for the prototype. The professor
bought the required hardware during the meeting.

Developers explained the prototype we're trying to program, which is a text
notification every time a medication is logged. We also explained that the
open-source accessibility tools we're looking into are either not updated
anymore or require more research.

We spoke about the Symposium and the abstract we wrote. We don't need to add
the open-source tools we're using in the abstract, though it's a good idea to
mention them in our poster, potentially with a QR code. We also clarified that
we're using the open-source AAC tools, and improving upon those tools is not the
focus of this project; therefore, it's not needed to add it in the abstract.

:::note

The website has a `/qr/` path we should use to ensure there's no broken links.
[Check the GitHub repository for how it works](https://github.com/ojosproject/website/blob/main/src/pages/qr.tsx).

:::

### Developers

Developers continued to work on C4 models. We near finalized the component
diagram, though they're going to look into it more. We also started working on
class diagrams and noticed the diagrams became a bit too messy. We're going to
work on a SQL schema before continuing with the class diagrams.

We will also start a new iteration of the requirements.

### Engineering

The Engineers continues with our digital modeling of the first prototype.
Additionally, we managed to classify our kiosk name to work in tandem with our
IRIS Software. For now the Kiosk will now be name the Palliaview.

Furthermore, We began to make a checklist of future reports and illustrations
needed to be produced:

- [ ] Finite Element Analysis (FEA)
- [ ] Computer-Aided Drawings (CAD)
- [ ] Electrical Diagrams
- [ ] Engineering Reports

## April 24, 2024

| General Information |                                                                         |
| ------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Teams Present       | Developers, Engineering                                                 |
| Members Present     | Carlos Valdez, Joseph Sweatt, Ayush Jain, Meadow Rubalcava, Jesse David |
| Meeting Time        | 12:00 PM - 3:00 PM                                                      |
| Report Author(s)    | Carlos Valdez, Joseph Sweatt                                            |
| Location            | Undergraduate Research Lab @ Donald Bren Hall                           |

### Developers

The Developers worked on the C4 Model more, creating a rough draft of the
Container Diagram and the Component Diagram, both of which will be found in the
C4 Model page.

The Developers have also agreed to develop a mobile app for Iris written in
[React Native](https://reactnative.dev/) to keep only one extra codebase. This
app would be available for iOS, Android, and the Web. It is currently codenamed
"Iris Lite" and is meant to be a read-only version of the Iris data.

The Developers have agreed to meet on Fridays from 12 PM - 4 PM to ensure we
have prototype software for the Symposium.

We have a checklist we have to get done before the Symposium:

- [ ] Finish C4 Model
- [ ] Figma prototypes
- [ ] Learn... (we may decide to choose a different language)
  - [ ] Rust
  - [ ] GNOME ecosystem

### Engineering

Engineering Team has begun the Computer Aided Design Process for two systems for
our Kiosk Device:

- Kiosk Tablet
- Mounting System

Additionally, we have finalized our first shopping list for the prototype we
will be presenting during our [2024 Symposium](/news/symposium-2024/)

## Previous Reports

Before this page, we didn't exactly have "meeting reports". Rather, we just took
attendance in an [internal Google Docs, which you can view here if you have
access](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1aNoTci4Yo663LW_om2WUFohHg6SC70SI3AmMp9x4gc8/).
